
What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
    Ans: JDK contains JRE, compiler and debugger.
    JRE - Java Runtime Environment
    Compiler - translates Java code into machine code
    Debugger -  provides inspection and debugging
What is IDE?
    Ans: IDE is Integrated Development Environment.
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
    Ans: Eclipse, Intellij, NetBeans.
Explain the entire java life cycle.
    A java program will be written and then compiled by a Java Compiler. From there, it will turn it into
    a .class, which then goes through an interpreter. This translates the java code into binary machine code.
    This is then outputted to the computer.
what is class?
    Ans: A blueprint for creating objects.
What is object?
    Ans: An entity that has state and behavior.
What is the entry point of an application?
    Ans: The main method
Why main is static?
    Ans: Main is called by the JVM before any objects are made.
What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
    Ans: You can only declare methods in interface, and can implement non-abstract methods and declare
    abstract methods in abstract class.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
    Ans: You can not instantiate an interface and abstract class. Instead you can instantiate one of their
     subclasses or implementers.
what is Access Specifier?
    Ans: The access to classes, constructors, methods and fields using access modifiers. (public, private, protected)
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
    Ans: OOP is Object Oriented Programming. It consists of abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance and polymorphism.
    Abstraction - implementation hiding
    Encapsulation - data hiding
    Inheritance - mechanism to acquire all the properties and behavior from it's parent object
    Polymorphism - the ability of an object to take on many forms
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
    Ans: Application Program Interface. We have used BufferedReader, FileReader, Scanner, String.
Does java support multiple inheritance?
    Ans: No
What is method overloading and when it happens?
    Ans: Allows a class to have two or more methods having same name. Happens in compile time.
What is method overriding and when it happens?
    Ans: Allows subclass or child class to provide a specific implementation of a method that is already provided
    by one of its superclasses or parent classes. It happens in run time.
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
    Ans: It is an event which occurs during the execution of a program which disrupts the program's instructions. It is
    handled by try and catch block.
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
    Ans: Is a member variable, or method, can be accessed without requiring an instantiation of the class to which it
    belongs.
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
    Ans: Used to variables to make its values not to be changed. If you want a value of a variable or a method to
    never change, then use the final key word.
What is final, finally and finalize?
    Ans: Final is used to apply restrictions on class, method and variable. It can't be inherited, final method can't
    be overridden and final variable value can't be changed. Finally is used to place important code, it will be
    executed whether exception is handled or not. Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object
    is garbage collected.
What is a constructor ?
    Ans: Special method of a class that initializes an object of that class type.
What is "this" keyword in java ?
    Ans: It is a reference to the current object whose method or constructor is being invoked.
What is "super" keyword in java?
    Ans: Reference variable which is used to refer immediate parent class object.
What is JVM stand for ?
    Ans: Java Virtual Machine
What version of java are you using?
    Ans: 1.8
What is JAR stand for ?
    Ans: Java Archive
What is compile time and run time?
    Ans: Compile time - the time period in which you are compiling the code
    Run time - the time period in which you are running your piece of software
What is heap?
    Ans: Runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays are located
How java manage it's memory?
    Ans: By the heap, which is created when the JVM starts up.
What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
    Ans: String is immutable which means once created, it can not be changed, StringBuffer is mutable which means one
    can change value of the object. StringBuilder is the same as StringBuffer but StringBuilder is not thread safe.
    What is Singleton class?
    What is Serialization and Deserialization?
    Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
    Why is String Immutable in Java?
    What is constructor chaining in Java?
    The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
    What is JIT stands for?
    Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
    Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
    What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
